Back in Bible times, a young woman named Dina got involved with bad associations.
What were the consequences?
Cast members of a modern-day drama we call the Bible account.
Dina was the daughter of Jacob.
She moved along with Jacob's family to a new area.
The scriptures say that she used to go out to visit the jodders of the land.
It was a custom with her.
She was putting herself in a compromising situation.
At some point, a Kenanite man named Jacob noticed her.
He was the most honorable man in his father's house.
But he was still not a worshiper of Jehovah.
He was handsome. He had his pick of women.
But there was something about Dina that must have attracted him.
It had a lot to do with her innocence and her inexperience.
She was a virgin. She was not like all these other Kenanite girls.
She put herself in a compromising situation.
She allowed herself to be alone when she came where he took advantage of the situation.
They might have just started talking or laughing about something and one thing leads to another.
I'm sure it would have been devastating because he forced her to have sex.
She got herself into this situation.
And that she'd hurt not only her family, her father, her parents, but Jehovah too.
Even though the Dina account is from history, it still definitely applies today.
This kind of situation can definitely happen.
I think this drama is going to help a lot of people, kids and adults,
to see that what happened to Dina could happen to any of us if we let it.
Dear Chrissy, sorry it's taken me so long to answer your letters.
It was pretty crazy around here for a while.
Anyway, I want you to know that I'm okay.
But Chrissy, something you said in your last letter worried me.
You said that you thought the friends at the Kingdom Hall were boring,
and that the kids at school were a lot more fun.
If you knew what I've been through recently, you'd understand why I'm worried.
You've probably wondered why I haven't written you since we moved here.
I guess I've been too ashamed.
But now I think I need to tell you.
I understood why we had to move, with Dad getting the new job and everything.
But that didn't make things any easier.
I was leaving behind all my friends.
Mom and Dad were so busy with our new home and their new jobs.
I didn't want to burden them with how miserable I felt.
I started writing poetry again.
It seemed to take my mind off my loneliness.
At the new congregation, Mom and Dad were eager to make new friends.
I had a major attitude problem.
Well, there was nice meeting you, Tara.
Yeah, same here.
Wonder what we were talking about.
Hey! You must be Tara.
Hi.
I just met your parents. They are so nice.
Thanks.
Well, anyway, my name is Stacy.
You mind if I sit down?
There was this pioneer sister, Stacy Evans.
She tried really hard to be nice.
So, I hear you're from Luinda Falls?
Lucinda Falls.
Oh, Lucinda Falls, sorry.
Pretty small town, huh?
It's not that small.
Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to.
It must be pretty hard being away from all your friends, huh?
Excuse me, brothers.
Could everyone please find their seats?
Stacy, it was nice meeting you.
I just wasn't ready to make any new friends.
Chrissy, I had never, ever felt so alone.
And school was the final brushstroke on this portrait of misery.
I felt so out of place.
It was like I didn't even exist.
A few weeks later, though, things seemed to change for the better.
It was in Mr. Beck with Singlish class.
Not Pete Falls.
What are we going to do with the party?
That's what we're going to do.
Get another question, whatever you're going to do.
Thank you.
This past weekend, while you were out partying,
this overworked and underpaid English teacher
spent his weekend reading your poems.
Take this masterpiece, for example.
I think I shall never see a guy as cool as Anthony's.
He's very strong and cute and tall.
I like to show him up in the shopping mall.
And guess who authored this work of art?
My skateboard makes a sound.
What is the ground that can be by Pete?
No, Mr. B, you got to read it with a little rhythm,
little style, some attitudes.
He's sick, Kyle, sick.
Some of you did write verses
that rightly can be called lyrical poetry.
Now we'll have that select few present their poems before the class.
Sorry, Miss Taylor.
Not this time.
First up, Miss Tara Manson.
Great.
As if being the new kid in class wasn't bad enough.
Now I had to be put on public exhibition.
I was sick.
I remember the day I caught loneliness.
Okay, come on.
It was the day we moved away.
It lay like a stone in my lap.
No matter how I tried, prying, tearing,
it simply would not go away.
I never knew emptiness until I moved away.
I remained a pebble, lost in this world so vast and uncaring.
Cast aside, passed by, left astray.
I took steps to destroy it before it sapped me, crushed me, left me victim.
I pulled harder, ripping that stone right from my heart
and threw it all back into the void from where it came.
Yes, I had thrown loneliness away.
Thank you, Miss Manson.
Excellent work.
Notice her use of simile when she says,
it laid like a...
Her weeks I had been invisible to these kids.
Suddenly, they noticed me.
Thank you.
Do you know what this shows me?
That you're all capable of writing poetry.
It's just a matter of making the effort.
Don't forget people.
New Friday, dramatic dialogue,
being suffering laws,
ponder optional.
So, you're a math genius too.
Oh, hi, Laurie.
And some kind of frustrated poet,
just waiting to be discovered.
I wouldn't say that.
Well, Mr. Beckwisher jeweled over your poetry.
So, so, I figured you're the one to help me with the class assignments.
You mean the dramatic dialogue?
Yeah, theme, suffering loss.
Anyway, I have to get an A on it.
Why are you flunking English?
Oh, but I gotta pull my grades up in order to get into college.
So, I figure you're the one to help me with this.
I was planning on working on it by myself.
Come on, Tara. Mr. B said we could use a partner.
Look, Laurie, I'm sorry, but I like to work alone when I write.
Please, don't make me back.
I actually felt sorry for her.
Is that a yes?
I guess.
Yes, okay. I'll pick you up tomorrow and you can go to my place.
Your place? Why can't we just do it here?
This place is gross.
Besides, we'll have a lot more privacy.
Okay, ciao.
Going to her house wasn't exactly what I had in mind.
But at the time, I couldn't think of any way to get out of it.
And I have to admit, I was a little curious about this girl.
We both had a serious case of writer's block.
Back what drives me crazy with these assignments?
I mean, what does suffering loss mean?
Didn't he say it to me, whatever we want it to mean?
So, we make something up.
Like what?
Like, when your parents make you move away and you lose everything you care about.
Tell me about it.
What? You too?
Hey, I wasn't always the picture of charm and fashion that you see before you today.
We used to live in a small house in a small town.
And then dad hit it big in the stock market.
And voila!
Goodbye, friends.
Hello loneliness.
I don't know why I'm telling you all this.
That's it.
That's what.
The loss.
We do a dramatic dialogue about the loss of friendship.
You mean about friends moving away?
No, a little too close to our home.
Then how about because they've had a fight?
About what?
Hello about guys.
What else do girls fight about?
Finally, the ideas were flowing.
We got together again the next day.
So there's two women.
And we can make them really old.
Like, 30.
Yeah, and they're both hopelessly in love with this guy Jake.
Jake? Nah.
Brett.
Okay, Brett.
As I got to know Laurie,
my opinion of her began to change.
I never would have guessed that we had so much in common.
It's a great pictures.
Who's this?
Oh, that was my best friend Misty.
We used to do everything together.
Anyway, that's our old house.
Can you believe it?
Don't you miss it sometimes?
Yeah, a little.
But mostly my friends.
So, from our 1320 says,
he that is walking with wise persons will become wise,
but he that is having dealings with the stupid ones will fair badly.
Now when the Bible says stupid ones,
it's not talking about people who are unintelligent,
but about people who do not follow godly standards.
All I could think about
was getting together again with Laurie.
You can't have him, Alexandra.
Brett is mine.
Perfect.
Let's take it from the top.
You can't have him, Alexandra. Brett is mine.
Yours, Brett Kimberly.
What about me, Alexandra?
That's the problem, Kimberly.
It's always been about you.
Doesn't our friendship mean anything at all to you?
Our friendship?
Write it off as a lost honey.
Your loss, my game.
Okay, so we weren't ready for Broadway.
But the class loved it.
Oh, we could go.
I couldn't stand this girl.
Suddenly, Laurie's friends didn't mind being seen with him.
All to you.
Oh, it's so free.
You guys should try out for the school play.
Okay, no, that was just for an A.
But you have definitely earned a seat at this table top.
Yeah, we had an opening for a literary genius.
Aaron, please, I'm no genius.
Ooh, and so modest.
If I had your talent,
I'd question on it.
What do you mean?
Hello scholarships, a career thing.
Money?
Guys.
And money.
And guys.
No, it's just a hobby for me.
So what do you plan to do, Flip Burgers?
Well, I need to do something to support myself,
but I really want to help people.
What, you mean like a social worker or something?
No, more like volunteer work.
Oh, and tear work.
Yeah, I mean, we teach people.
Teach what?
Hello, teachers don't make any money.
No, let me explain.
You see, we're...
Well, I mean, I want to...
Hold that for.
Yeah?
Hey, Joanna.
Oh, cool.
Of course I'll be there.
All right.
Ciao.
Summer Clarence Girls, today only.
Tara, you can't miss it.
I don't think I can.
I don't have any money with me.
Have no fear.
Denny's credit card is here.
Besides, I owe you big time.
Hey, maybe we can get her out of her mislew in the falls outfit.
It's Lucinda Falls.
What?
And besides, what's wrong with my outfit?
Now I was in Laurie's circle of friends.
But I had to make a few changes to fit in.
Hello, Mark.
In your English class, Mark.
He's been checking you out ever since your little poetry reading.
He's cute.
And Daddy has big bucks.
That's mentioned that he's recently become a villain.
I could definitely see you two together.
Together?
I don't want to be together with anyone.
We could set you up.
Well, if he's so great, how can none of you are interested in him?
I'm seeing somebody already.
Ditto.
And I'm with Anthony.
Remember, he's in college.
Thank you.
Besides, I'm not into the sensitive intellectual type.
Yeah, just set like that last mutant you were dating.
But until I actually charged her.
Don't even get me started on some of the losers you've dated anyway.
You are interested aren't you, Tara?
Well, no.
I mean, I don't know.
Don't really, Tara.
We'll arrange everything.
I'll arrange what?
Arrange what?
The girl's also figured I needed a little help with my social life.
Mark, she's way different from the other girls you've dated.
I mean, she's in a charity and volunteering and that sort of stuff.
She wants to be a social worker or something like that.
Oh, hi, Tara.
Mark, you are so funny.
Hi, Tara.
We saved a seat just for you.
Thanks.
You know, Mark, Chandler, don't you?
Yeah, we're in the same English class.
And you are the great poet and playwright.
Yeah, right.
No, I'm serious.
You were really great.
So, how do you like life near the big city?
Well, I haven't actually seen the city yet.
Get out.
What are you doing?
You're not at school.
I'm meatloaf day.
Get the pizza.
Yeah.
There you go.
Thanks.
Isn't it so sweet?
Anyway, I'm usually with my parents.
Hey, what are you doing, Saturday?
We could show her.
Yeah.
Play tour guides.
Why not?
Sounds like fun.
So what do you say?
I don't know.
I have to be up early on Sunday.
We'll start early.
We'll get back early.
There you go.
Come on, dad.
Well, I guess so.
All right.
We're on.
So we'll meet after lunch.
Yeah.
And I'll pick you up at your house.
Great.
That's OK.
I'll just get a ride to Laurie's.
I never would have admitted it.
But I did think Mark was cute.
And a day with the girl sounded like fun.
Right?
That Saturday morning, I went out and field service
with Stacey Evans.
But my mind was not unpreaching.
I told Stacey that I was hungry and wanted to stop service early.
She insisted on buying me lunch.
OK.
Here's your salad.
Thanks.
It'll be a couple minutes on your burger.
So how are you doing?
I mean, getting used to the new school and everything.
OK, actually.
Most everyone's been pretty nice.
Oh, that's good.
Hey, listen.
I'm having some friends over tonight.
I want you to come.
I actually made a cheesecake that I'm proud of.
I'd love to, but I promise to go into the city with some friends.
Oh, from our home?
No, from school.
But they're just going to show me around the city.
They're real nice.
Look, I hope you don't mind me asking this.
But how well do you really know these kids?
What do you mean?
I mean, do they have any interest in the Bible?
I don't know.
It hasn't come up.
But they're not into drugs or anything like that.
In fact, they're even nicer than some of the kids at the Kingdom Hall.
Well, even if that were true, don't you think you have to be careful with people,
people who may not even believe in the Bible?
Don't forget what happened to Dina.
Dina?
Yeah, remember Jacob Stoddard?
These kids are not cana-nice.
They're very nice.
Maybe.
But what are their beliefs?
What are their morals?
So you're saying that I shouldn't be friendly with anyone in school who is in a witness?
No, no, I'm not saying that at all.
I mean, the Bible tells us to love our neighbors.
But doesn't it also warn us that it's dangerous to get too close to certain people?
People that don't follow God's standards?
Dina learned that the hard way.
But don't we have to teach people about the Bible?
How can I do that if I don't spend any time with them?
Oh, so you have had a chance to witness today?
Well, no.
But that's not the point.
Laurie and her friends are not bad.
Okay.
But do they encourage you to do good things?
Like, like personal study, meetings, field service.
No.
Look, Stacey, I've already given my word.
And Jesus did say I have to let my yes mean yes, right?
Tara, do you really think Jesus meant saying yes to things that can hurt you?
Stacey, I'll be careful.
I'm not going to do anything stupid.
Trust me.
Here's your burger, honey.
Stacey's words affected me far more than she realized.
But I had already made up my mind.
I lied to my parents and told them I have plans with some friends from the congregation.
At first, we pretty much stayed together as a group.
But soon, Mark and I were talking.
I really enjoyed the attention.
But you know he was stone when he wrote those phones.
You write better when you're high?
No, I'm not into drugs.
Are you?
You know that used to be the tallest building in New York?
Mark made me feel special.
And the more I got to know him, the more I liked him.
It's a nice dream, right?
It was about hard.
I wasn't going to let anything spoil this day.
He's never stopped you before.
Why are we going home so early?
Aaron's right.
This place doesn't even get going until after dark.
That's true.
And if we leave now, all we're going to do is sit and traffic.
Why don't we hit a couple of clubs?
Flat tires, something.
Oh, yes.
No, I better get home.
We'll have no fear.
Thanks to me, or evening will not be a total waste.
Oh, so you're leaving?
Stunned your growth?
You lost.
Good stuff.
The best.
Hey, my parents are gone.
A little party in my place.
Too bad to.
You're missing out.
Never mind.
Well, we're going to get tear back home before she was there bedtime.
To be honest, Chrissy, I probably would have stayed.
But it was getting dark.
And I knew I'd never get away with coming home that late.
Hey, don't forget about that party.
I swear I got a guy there.
All right, see you later.
Bye, Mark.
Mark told me he didn't mind taking me home.
Oh, Mark, you want to make a next left?
Wait, Tara, there's one more place you've got to see.
Mark, I've got to get home.
I'll get you home.
Trust me.
Mark.
This is your favorite spot?
Sure is.
What may I ask is so special about it?
Sometimes I just like to come here and think.
About what?
Things.
Like, how to tell your father you don't want to go to law school and work for the firm?
Isn't there good money in it?
I don't care about the money.
I want to help people.
Maybe teacher, do volunteer work.
You sound like me.
Really?
Well, yeah.
Mark seemed to care about a lot of the things that were important to me.
Before I knew it, we had been talking for over an hour.
I don't know.
So Kyle's flying down the hallway,
back with just right in front of him.
Boom!
Kyle and back with flat on their backs.
Oh, no.
Kyle's spent his entire sophomore year in detention for that.
Tara, you know what?
Oh, never mind.
No, what?
You're different from the other girls, aren't you?
Different?
Is that supposed to be a compliment?
Yeah.
I mean, I've never met anyone like you.
I could tell from your poem.
Well, you know, I was really impressed with your poem, too.
No, well, thanks.
But yours told me something.
Told you what?
That you've got a lot going on inside.
I mean, Laurie and the other girls are okay,
but they're also empty.
You're different.
Chrissy, I can't believe how close I came to breaking Jehovah's laws that night.
Things went way too far.
And Mark wanted to go much farther.
But I couldn't.
I kept thinking about how much it would hurt my parents, my friends,
and especially Jehovah.
Still, it wasn't easy.
It took everything I had to stop and to get Mark to take me home.
Tara?
Mark revealed a side of himself that I hadn't seen before.
I just don't get it.
Things were going so great.
What is it with you?
Mark didn't care about me or my feelings.
He wanted one thing.
Later on, I learned I wasn't the first or the last to be taken to his favorite spot.
I got to go.
I felt so stupid, so naive.
It was wrong to be alone like that with any guy.
But especially one who didn't serve Jehovah.
I let Mark know that I would never go out with him again.
That night, I told my parents everything.
They were very upset.
Are you sure you told us everything?
Nothing else happened?
No, Dad. I told you.
You've been telling us a lot of things.
I don't know what to believe anymore.
Honey, what were you thinking?
Didn't you get it?
What do you think he took you there?
Don't you know what he wanted?
I can't believe this.
After a while, things started to calm down.
And they really listened.
Tara, it took a lot of courage to tell us all that.
Sorry, I got swaying free.
That's okay, Dad.
I just wish I came to you and mom sooner.
Maybe this wouldn't have happened.
Honey, we're just glad things didn't go any further than they did.
I know, but I still feel awful about what did happen.
And so do we.
We got so wrapped up in our new jobs, the house,
that we didn't even see what you were going through.
Honey, we're going to do everything that we can to help you get through this.
It's been a long day.
Let's get some rest and we can talk about this tomorrow.
Love you so much.
My parents and later the elders were really there for me.
The heart is more treacherous than anything else.
I had heard that scripture a thousand times before,
but never gave it much thought.
Now I couldn't stop thinking about it.
I wanted to be liked and accepted so much that I was willing to hide who I really was.
I had to start setting things straight.
It was so perfect.
I mean, what was the problem?
I know Mart practice is safe sex.
Laurie couldn't believe that I turned Mart down.
It's because...
Because of what?
Because of what I believe.
I don't get it.
I mean, it's my religious beliefs, Laurie.
Look, Tara, I went through a lot of trouble to get you guys together.
And now you've suddenly gotten religious?
What's up with that?
I haven't suddenly gotten religious.
This is what I've always believed.
I guess I just forgot who I really am and what I care about.
Don't you care about Mark?
I did, but I shouldn't have gotten involved with him.
And I'm definitely not going to do something immoral with him.
Who said do something immoral?
I have morals.
I'm not saying that you don't.
Then what are you saying?
That I don't believe in having sex before marriage.
If it's with somebody that you really care about, what's the big deal?
The big deal is that the Bible says it's wrong.
Do you have to do every little thing the Bible says?
Look, Laurie, I should have told you this before.
I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
You are?
Yes.
And we take the Bible seriously.
It says sex is for two people who are married.
You're kidding, right?
No, I'm not.
Okay, so it didn't work out with you and Mark.
But don't forget about the party Friday.
Maybe you'll need somebody else.
Somebody has more like you.
No, Laurie.
I don't think so.
Not there.
Well, then just come and hang out with us girls.
Thanks, but I just wouldn't be comfortable at the party.
Okay.
So you don't want to date guys and you don't want to go to parties.
Don't you people have any kind of fun?
Of course we do.
The Bible doesn't condemn fun.
I would love to explain my beliefs.
Maybe then all this would make more sense to you.
I don't know, Tariots late.
Maybe another time.
Telling her all that was not easy.
But it was worth it.
I think that Laurie respected me for it.
And it felt good to finally stand up for what I believed.
I just wish that I had spoken up earlier.
It would have saved me a lot of pain.
It's me up as you can.
Stacy, ever since I've moved here, you've been trying to be my friend.
And I've acted so stupid.
Why do you keep trying?
Because I don't think you really like this.
I think I'm looking at someone who's going through a hard time.
And who really needs a friend.
And I'd like to be that friend if you let me.
You have been a friend, Stacy.
Maybe even more than you know.
I'll be okay.
I realize now how much Jehovah cares.
That I have my parents and friends like you to help me.
You know what?
Tomorrow?
You and me.
Let's go out and service and do lunch or something.
Does that sound good?
I like that.
Good.
As long as we don't go back to the Silver Spoon Diner, I can't.
You mean the Greasey Spoon Diner.
Oh.
Chrissy, that was months ago.
And I'm finally getting over things and feeling much better.
I see things a lot differently now.
I realize that being in the truth means more than just going to the kingdom hall with their parents.
That we really do have to make the truth our own.
Being with people who want to do the same thing can make a big difference.
Oh, excellent.
So how was service me this morning?
At first, I didn't think I had anything in common with the friends of my congregation.
But you know what?
We have the most important thing in common we can have.
Our friendship with Jehovah.
Things are going great with my parents.
I'm a lot more open with them now.
And I let them know how I really feel.
We've gotten a lot closer.
I'm going to try and be a sport hero again.
I tried like the last time.
I opened the attraction for like a month.
I heard that.
It's kidding brother, that's it.
Sometimes I used to think I was missing out because I couldn't do everything the kids had in school did.
Now I think that they're the ones missing out.
Maybe there are a lot of things that Christian can't do.
But there's a lot of things we can do.
The friends in our congregation get together all the time.
I can't wait for you to meet them when you come out and visit.
I hope that's soon.
I wish I could go back and do things differently.
But I can't change the past.
I can only move forward and try to learn from my mistakes.
You see, I've learned something very important.
Something that I will never forget.
Who my real friends are.
And Chrissy, I hope that you will always be one of them.
Forever.
Love, Tara.
We don't want to stick ourselves in a corner and just hide and refuse to talk to anyone because that's not balanced.
There's nothing wrong with talking to the kids at school.
We can be friendly with them because we're obviously going to have some of the same interests.
But there's a certain line that we just won't cross.
Kids that witness kids, they need to be honest with the kids at school.
They need to let them know right away.
You bring it up.
You tell them what your beliefs are.
You know, that your Jehovah's Witness, they're proud of what they are.
Kids today need to recognize that there are good associates within the Christian congregation.
They can have a great time and yet still live up to Bible standards and Bible principles.